---
title: People Are Strange, I Mean Me
date: 2016-09-12
tags: nvc overloading blocking timing social skills 
author: Sam Joseph
---

Okay, so I feel like a bit of a social klutz.  Often there are ideas that seem really important and well-formed in my head, and then I say them and it comes out as a mess.  Also, I think I'm not so good about reading the mood-music of the social group around me.  I mean, I get by ...  One to one conversations I think I don't do too badly at.  Case in point regarding bigger groups, this Sunday I was at a football match for my 11 year old.  I know the coach and assistant coach well, and before I started coaching the team for the seven year olds (which my younger twins are in), I was sort of an assistant-assistant coach.  I would referee the matches, help out.  I've been quite involved.  The coach asked me to video the match on the Sunday, which I did.  So there was the half time team talk and the post-match team talk.  At the end of the half-time team talk I asked to add something about strategy.  What was so clear in my head didn't come out so clearly.  No big deal, but then in the final team talk after the coach had finished reviewing the match with the boys, he asked if the assistant coach or I had anything to say.  The assistant coach made a few points, and I was preparing a simple point in my mind, however when the assistant coach finished the coach said something to the effect of "Right, great work everyone, round of applause for the boys", basically a finish up thing.

What I should have done looking back at it was think like "it's hot, people want to get on, the coach is wrapping up and my point's not that important, and just left it", but like so often I don't seem to be able to let these things go.  So I kind of talked over the end of the applause to make a point about communication amongst the team; which is of course doubly ironic, because while I was making the point about the need for effective communication amongst the team players, I was failing to read the communicative situation I was in, where I think it would be much better to have gone with the flow, i.e. to just say nothing.  I felt stupid after, but of course that's no big deal.  I'm probably the only one who will remember, and the worst that will be is that a few parents/coaches/players might be affected subtly in a negative direction towards me, although I think I've been making these communication mistakes all my life, so it's probably more a case of "That's just Sam".

Maybe I'm being too hard on myself, but I do feel a big turnaround in my thoughts recently.  I always thought it was of paramount importance to speak the truth and communicate your thoughts, and that was what made me a good communicator.  What I've realised recently is that often what we think is the "truth" at one moment is really just a "perspective" and quite often the value gained from communicating it can be undone by a poor choice of timing.  I'm starting to see how important it is to be reading the mood of the others and adjusting one's verbal output as a function of that.  I've blogged before about the concepts of "overloading" and "blocking".  Overloading is what I commonly do when I give people too much information and under-estimate their level of discomfort.  Blocking is something else that I can easily slip into when someone says something that doesn't match my mental model of reality.  Rather than focusing on connecting with what the other person is feeling, or what they are trying to communicate, I go into academic debate mode trying to compare their statements logically with my model of reality.

Of course, it all depends.  I guess I need to add "timing" to the list of "blocking" and "overloading".  Sometimes a block might be appropriate - it's all about relative costs, and how certain you feel about things at the time; but to summarise, I think I tend to block people at the wrong times, I tend to overload them at the wrong times, and hey, I'm working on it. :-) This being human thing didn't come with a manual.  I was mercilessly bullied in school and cocooned myself in television programs and computer games from age 13 to 17.  I'm still working through that.  It's no excuse for being an irritating person, but I'm working on trying to make myself a more pleasant person to interact with. 

The funny thing is that I also baulk at saying some things that I think are really important because I'm worried about upsetting someone, or that they'll respond angrily.   The ironic thing is that I think I often upset people saying things that I hadn't particularly thought through, or that it just hadn't occurred to me would be controversial.  Conversely, when I think something might be inflammatory I beat around the bush, have trouble getting to it, and go into waffle mode.  That's something else I'm working on.  I am finding the Non-Violent Communication (NVC) model quite helpful in that regard, which goes something like this:

1. Tell the person an observation e.g. "I notice you seem to be raising your voice"
2. Tell the person your feeling e.g. "That makes me feel scared"
3. Tell them your need e.g. "I need to feel safe in my work environment"
4. Make a request e.g. "I was hoping the you might be able to talk to me a little more quietly"
5. Continue the conversation from there, perhaps coming to a compromise, and listening out for needs and feelings that the other person is expressing, reflecting that back to them where appropriate.

Whether it's genetic or the way I grew up, but it seems I'm not sensitive enough to social cues from others, and too sensitive to internal fears; maybe?  It's a complicated tuning process.  If I do actually manage to turn up my social sensitivity too much I would probably revert to the state of my 16 year old self, where I was a total wall-flower and would never speak in front of a group.  Famously, the prize winning physicist Richard Feynman published a book called "What Do You Care What Other People Think?", which I read when I was 17.  At 17 I seemed to lose all inhibitions and became somewhat of an exhibitionist, being totally happy to speak in front of groups, the bigger the better.  I got involved in amateur dramatics and was happily oblivious to the many people who probably thought I was a total idiot.  What do I care what other people think?  Well ultimately I don't, really, but I don't want to irritate them unnecessarily.  I'd also like to collaborate with them on cool projects, and I'd really prefer not to upset them.

While there's plenty for me to improve, I don't think it's entirely about me.  The other thing I notice is that most people seem pretty reluctant to share how they feel.  Maybe perfectly sensibly people will not say "you're irritating me" or "stop that".  They'll just let you carry on and then avoid you in the future.  This is not to criticise others, per se.  I mean it's not that everyone has a responsibility to be able to pinpoint why they are irritated with something you've done and provide feedback in a format you can digest; particularly if you're someone who will react by contesting their point.  People are trying to live their lives, fight their own battles, improve themselves.  Everyone's on their own journey, and while we always have great insight into our own pain and struggle, we really don't know what it's like for others.  Why should they make any exceptions for our poor behaviour?

Anyhow, I can't control other people's reactions to me.  I have trouble enough controlling my own behaviour, or at least trouble breaking the habits of a lifetime.  So the real responsibility has to lie with me to get my sensitivity to social cues set correctly.  Of course the other problem I have is with putting too much pressure on myself to get things right.  Trying too hard to adjust myself may well be counter-productive. :-) Anyway, let's wrap this self-diagnosis up with a little more on what I was planning to write about, which is the strangeness of people.  I think it's this thing where people tend to not say what they are thinking and just not show up. I can illustrate with a story from when I was 13 and had just started high school.  I and some others were learning the trumpet.  The vivacious music teacher was very keen for us to be in the school orchestra.  

I think that we had no interest in being in the school orchestra.  It meant additional practise and playing in a big group. That wasn't our idea of fun.  I remember getting grief from the music teacher because I told her straight that I didn't want to be in the orchestra.  My "friends" at the time didn't confront the music teacher. They just didn't show up for orchestra practise.  I always remember that I thought that was back to front.  I was being honest and straightforward, while others were just ducking out and got a much easier ride as a result. However maybe they were smarter than me; sensibly avoiding confrontation.  I see this all over the place; people preferring to just not show up, or not do, with no explanation, rather than providing an honest assertion that they don't want to do something, or that they can't make it.  Maybe this is just some part of the missing "how to be human manual" that my peers were discovering by interacting with each other between the ages of 13 and 17 when I was wrapped up in 8 bit computer games, game shows, sitcoms and TV dramas.  Who knows? :-) It's complicated, this life stuff.  I do like the NVC framework though - I really think that has helped me address some tough issues when I've realised that something is highly contentious; or at least I'm nervous about saying it.  I'll just keep working on my framework for being an effective social human being.  Three things in the list now:

* Timing
* Blocking
* Overloading

I'll keep tinkering with it till I get something that works. :-)

 








