---
title: Eye on the Ball
date: 2016-09-13
tags: data transfer heroku charges app cloud gps tracking eliminate simplify delegate automate 
author: Sam Joseph
---

My last few days have been taken up a lot with transferring data between iPhones.  This has been precipitated by the gradually faltering abilities of my 2 year old iPhone 5S:  Trickle charge not working, normal charging intermittent except with specific cables.  My son is starting cycling to a high school that's some distance away.  He wants a phone to stay in touch with his circles of friends, some of whom are starting at other schools even further away.  My wife and I have been "technologically conservative".  We've held off getting a phone, while his peer group now all seems to have one and use texting and whatsapp to arrange get togethers etc.  

So the social pressure has mounted to get him a phone.  The last 10 days I've been cycling with him to school to check his road safety, and that's great exercise and it's nice to spend time with him, but it's taking a good 40 minutes plus out of my work day, which is difficult given I'm trying to get the new AgileVentures charity enterprise off the ground (burning my savings to do so), and also my increasing commitments to the under eights football team, which has had an explosion of players this season.  Anyhow, so I bought an iPhone SE directly from Apple because I'm not interested in a larger phone.  What I should have done was do the immediate sync of data, but as I do recently when I upgrade laptops, I was tempted not to in order to switch items over one at a time.  Have a clear out so to speak.

That approach has worked very well for me on laptops.  Going through the re-install process for all the software and projects is a sharp reminder of the install process for people trying to onboard onto our AgileVentures open source projects.  However it turned out to be a bad choice for a quick move to the new phone, or at least, a bad choice when I was trying to quickly decommission the old phone so that my son could use it, take it with him on the commute to school and calm my "he'll be knocked off his bike and not be able to phone for help!" paranoia sufficiently so I can reclaim the missing 40 minutes of my day that I need to get back on top of the current work avalanche.

What's rather frustrating is the time I invested in the independent move of data - re-entering all my email data, migrating whatsapp messages through iCloud etc., but the real sticking point was the 1Password app.  I got that on iPhone a couple of years ago. It works really well; allows me to manage complex passwords for things that really should be secure like Stripe on the phone.  However since I got 1password on my iPhone they've pivoted their approach so that now there are family and business accounts; new approaches to sharing.  I've also been using LastPass, but they charge for their mobile support, so I was finding myself in a sticky situation.  I'd burned a lot of time with a gradual transfer that kind of relied on me having my old phone around as backup.  However I needed to give up the old phone to my son, and although he's pretty responsible, there's a chance he might lose it, and I really needed to wipe all the old data off that phone before giving it to him.

Lots of time was burnt on that last night that I would have preferred to spend on practising the guitar or working on next Saturday's football training session for the under-eights.  It's all quite stressful, not least because of the memories it brings up of my own high-school days, and this transition involving my eldest son taking/getting more and more independence.  Judgement call on judgement call!  I went for doing the sync over, knowing that maybe there would be problems.  My old phone was still on iOS7 (I'd got conservative. As an iOS dev I knew you couldn't downgrade once you upgrade), the new one on iOS10, but thank goodness it worked out.  All the old apps including 1Password now work on the new phone; although I didn't really have the heart to do a full test of all the Japanese banking apps.  

And the other thing is this new "Find Friends" app - I upgraded what is now my son's phone to iOS10 and it seems I can now track where he is.  So he cycled to high school by himself for the first time this morning and I was able to follow his progress.  He texted me to say he had got to school, and I could see he was there.  Big brother or what!  This really does feel like science fiction, although clearly it's been totally possible for the last 10 years or so; that it was such a relatively simple set up on iOS10 gives me pause for thought.

Okay, so now I'm poised to reclaim that 40 minutes, and get on top of the meaty topics of the week.  Yesterday Michael and I added some tests to, and merged in, a PR on ProjectScope that allows us to update all the metrics using a rake task.  I popped that in a Heroku scheduler so that they'll be daily updates of project metrics.  Clearly key for the Berkeley teaching assistants who are each going to be trying to monitor 8 or so different project teams this semester.  With some misgivings I started using Waffle to organise our workflow, but I think we identified the critical path.  The key thing was a new instance for the Berkeley TAs to use.  The client (Armando) wanted every end point secure, which we'll try to get on today, but I wanted to check that deploy process and the scheduler first - that's critical (Make one change at a time).  We're finding the encrypted application.yml file a bit of a handful - probably more on that tomorrow, but the big thing was that we saw that we now couldn't have a free-tier Heroku instance in our AgileVentures team on Heroku.

Careful review showed that a cluster of apps that were all redundant had each been accumulating charges of $7 a month for the last three months or so.  Not good for a struggling charity startup.  Michael started shutting down the apps, and I contacted Heroku customer support to ask for a refund.  We'll see how that goes ... Frustrating.  I totally understand Heroku changing their plan there.  We were using the team feature of Heroku for free for a long while since we took it up as an early beta.   I'm "happy" to pay for our key apps to run on the team, but this all feels like a stab out of the blue.  Did I miss an email alerting me about this?  Have I not been keeping my eye on the ball?  Investigation required, but it seems like the key is keep focusing on doing things that will free up time like ensuring the transition of old phone to son; printing and laminating a FAQ for the under eights football team so I can hand them out to parents to avoid spending time trying to explain things to them while running a practise session; and ruthlessly eliminating, simplifying, automating or delegating anything and everything I spend my time doing during the working day.
