---
title: Mobbing and Face 2 Face
date: 2016-12-16
tags: Confident Ruby, Idempotency, Structs, Classes, splat, lambda, Rails 5, ActionCable, BDD, Cucumber, User Stories
author: Sam Joseph
---

Thursday was taken at quite a rush.  I moved the Premium Mob programming session forward half an hour so I could attend my twin boys carol concert.  We got deeper into Avdi Grimm's Confident Ruby, where the patterns were starting to combine to create code like this:

```rb
module Graphics
  module Conversions
    module_function

    def Point(*args)
      case args.first
      when Integer then Point.new(*args)
      when String then Point.new(*args.first.split(':').map(&:to_i))
      when ->(arg){ arg.respond_to?(:to_point) } then args.first.to_point  
      when ->(arg){ arg.respond_to?(:to_ary) } then Point.new(*args.first.to_ary)
      
      else
        raise TypeError, "Cannot convert #{args.inspect} to Point"
      end
    end
    
    Point = Struct.new(:x, :y) do
      def inspect
        "#{x}#{y}"
      end
      def to_point
        self 
      end
    end
    
    Pair = Struct.new(:a, :b) do
      def to_ary
        [a,b]
      end
    end
    
    class Flag
      def initialize(x,y,flag_color)
        @x, @y, @flag_color = x, y, flag_color
      end
      def to_point
        Point.new(@x,@y)
      end
    end
  end
end

include Graphics
include Graphics::Conversions

puts Point([])
puts Point("1:2")
puts Point([1,2])
puts Point(1,2)
puts Point(Pair.new(23,32))
puts Point(Flag.new(42, 24, :red))
```

The mobbers seemed pretty happy with the concepts of Idempotency, the splat argument (`*args`) and the lambdas (`->(arg)`) in the case statements.  The big discussion was about the use of Structs vs Classes, and Matt was able to use the shared C9 workspace to good effect to show me the alternatives he was thinking about.  I'm not sure that we're yet truely mobbing, but I think the others are gaining in confidence and we'll get there.  Mobbing completed, it was time for a carol service, and I was hardly back from that before it was time for the Kent Beck scrum.  I had managed to review a few LocalSupport pull requests, prioritising input for the Premium members who'd submitted code or questions.

Ed had booked me for a Premium F2F session immediately after the Kent Beck and we dived into user stories and cucumber to drive the creation of a new EventManager project in Rails 5.   Within the hour we got everything set up and had out first feature/scenario failing at the point where it would need ActionCable working in order to pass:

```gherkin
Feature: Joining the Event
  As a busy AV member
  So that I can work out if I want to join an event
  I'd like to see who is present in the event, updated in real time

  As a new member
  So that I can join the event on time
  I would like to have a real time view of whether the hangout is live

  Background:
    Given an event exists

  Scenario: see event status
    Given I visit the page for an event
    Then I should see "event not live"
    When the event goes live
    Then I should see "event live"
```

That was pretty satsifying, and I was riding high on possible nibbles from a few prospective AgileVentures sponsors.  In terms of financial stability we're about half way there.  If I can land another sponsor and double the number of Premium members it will be a very happy 2017 indeed.  My dream is a sustainable framework for open education for all, where we're all learning through the process of trying to make the world a better place.   The mob sessions are private at the moment, but I get permission from the F2F and Plus members to make their sessions available in the project channels to help the open source projects we work on, and of course all the resulting code is open.  We will need to throw the right sort of licenses in there.  Is it too crazy a dream that we could all be learning and growing without fear?  All benefiting from each other's courage to share the learning experience and process with each other?  And splitting our objective of personal growth with that of helping others?  Call me a dreamer, but I'm not the only one ... :-)

Anyhow I'm take a two week break from blogging now, like I did over the summer so I can calm down a bit and catch up with admin, coding and polishing and distributing some of the older blogs.  Hope you all have a very cool yule and I'll look forward to seeing you all in the New Year! :-)

###Related Videos

* ["Martin Fowler" scrum](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lrw0R8YbxXU)
* ["Kent Beck" scrum](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LkagGRnOorI)
* F2F pairing on Rails 5?  Navigate to the #event_manager channel on AgileVentures slack to catch the link before we lose the slack history :-)






