---
title: Something for the Weekend
date: 2016-10-17
tags: Slack, Skype, willpower, planning, email, reactionary, responsibilit,y dependents, job, business, charity, control
author: Sam Joseph
---

I usually try and keep my weekends work free.  I’ve done that for a long time, since I was about 25 and I had a period where I had worked through a few weekends and felt pretty damn drained and exhausted in each following week.  It made me really unpleasantly unhappy at the time.  Since then I’ve tried to have a rule about not working at weekends and where possible not looking at work email or chat during the weekend.  That’s become even more important to me since I had kids and the stresses of the work week have escalated as my paycheque is not just for me but for my dependents.

There have been times when chat applications on my phone have allowed work to intrude into my family time.  My wife jokes about me helping my three sons with their homework and then being distracted by questions from students on Skype on my phone.  To be fair there was a good five years where I was supporting students in a very different timezone and I felt obliged to be available.  However for family balance I’ve recently become stricter with myself and over the last three years I’ve been pretty good at confining my work communication to the 9-6.  We hear things like the French making it illegal to send work emails after 6pm and I have some sympathy with that.  I do worry that the stress of being constantly connected is bad for our health.  I really do want to spend quality time with my family.  Once my kids have grown up that chance to connect with them will have gone and I don’t want to have been completely distracted by work during that period

That said I need to provide food and shelter for my kids as well as attention, and for some jobs you need to be always on?  Maybe for all jobs you need to be going above and beyond to keep your job?  Maybe the father who is never there, but always provides the financial support is the better father than the one who is always available for a chat, but can’t keep the lights on?  Ironically for the professional development support that AgileVentures gives, a lot of people want extra support at the weekends.  Many people are working full time jobs, and the weekend is their chance to do some programming, to develop new skills and so forth.  Weekends and evenings - the time that I try to set aside to spend with my family.  

I’ve been bending my own rules recently.  I took on a Saturday evening Mentive class to bring in some more money and also to see Mentive's full process and how it integrates with the “Agile Development using Ruby on Rails” MOOC.  Also, since my knee surgery two weeks back I’ve been distracted by pain in my knee and I’ve been using the dopamine squirts from checking messages and emails on my phone to keep me from dwelling on that discomfort.  The last two weekends I’ve been checking Slack and email pretty regularly on my phone.  In general I haven’t been getting too stressed.  Focusing full-time on AgileVentures is nowhere near as stressful as dealing with a full time bootcamp, or even teaching at a university.

I think bootcamps are particularly stressful because the students are giving up full time jobs, paying their life savings, and going all in on a massive career change.  They’re also taking on a field in which you learn by experiencing failures again and again and again.  Universities are stressful (for instructors) because the majority of students are still thinking of them as an extension of school and there’s a kind of apathy and disjointedness that’s very frustrating as an instructor.  Often the students will be trying to game your grading system rather than actually being interested in learning.  I’d rather be an educator at a bootcamp than a university, because at least at the bootcamp the students are 100% committed to learning.  Ultimately though I don’t want to be an instructor at either.  I want to build code, and I want to build code with others who *want* to build code.

The AgileVentures model is all about people coding when they want to code.  We’ve got some new members who are particularly keen to code at the weekend, and we just re-branded and re-started the weekend scrum that had been unused for a while.  It's difficult for me to join those as I’m coaching my kids soccer team at the weekend, but I’ll do everything I can to support that initiative:

http://www.agileventures.org/events/bob-martin-weekend-scrum-and-pair-hookup

There’s a good logical argument for me checking Slack and email occasionally at the weekend if it’s to help sustain the community.  My fear is that it’s a kind of addiction.  I think I have a somewhat addictive personality.  My wife talks about me having good will-power, but I think it’s second order will-power.  Faced with something that I want, I find it difficult to resist.  However, if I can arrange circumstances so that I don’t encounter the thing I want, I can generally stay on the wagon.   I struggled for years to give up smoking, and was only finally able to quit when I moved to Japan.  I find it difficult to be motivated to exercise or blog, but if I work it into my routine I can keep doing it for months at a time.  If Slack or Whatsapp is pinging me on my phone I find it difficult not to respond, but if I turn off the notifications, or uninstall the app, then I can go for a good long time avoiding distraction.

I’ve definitely learned that there’s a big danger in the kind of reactive conversation one can get into on chat systems; sometimes also in person, and even in email.  You can read something, have a reaction to it and launch into a series of back and forths that are not always the most helpful.  That’s partly the motivation for my daily morning blogging.  I’m trying to avoid spending 30 minutes to an hour just reacting to what everyone has said on Slack and in email.   The pain in my knee is making it harder to keep to that rule.  I listen to a tech podcast in the morning and I seem to use sharing that on Slack as an excuse that I have to check a few other channels.  I was distracted for 20 minutes before this blog because of a comment in our #techtalk channel, that lead me to review all the unanswered entries in the MOOC discussion forum!  

Maybe that was reasonable station-keeping.  Over the last two weeks as I check email/Slack in dribs and drabs in my downtime I have less of a build up of messages post-blog.  I’m still worried that my responses may be too reactionary.  There’s a kind of “whack-a-mole” mentality that you can get into where you want to have replied to everything, want to have addressed everything, so you whack each message as it comes up.  Sometimes it would be better to leave things for others to answer.  Some questions are not critical to answer immediately, and more importantly, they may be distracting you from the activities that will keep you your current job, or sustain your existing business/charity.  Sometimes it can feel like wasting precious seconds on frivolities?

One thing I start to sense is that too strong a reaction is usually counter-productive, as is worrying too intensely about whether something
 is an effective use of your time.  Not that you shouldn’t reflect, but that should be done at intervals.  As my father used to say “it’s better to spend 10 minutes doing something, rather than spend 10 minutes worrying about the fact that you haven’t done anything for 10 minutes”.  Make a quick plan for the day, or the half day, do that and see how you feel.  Right - time to get on with my day, and maybe I’ll see you at the weekend :-)



