---
title: DriveBy Coding
date: 2016-09-16
tags: css progress refactoring static kanban waffle board
author: Sam Joseph
---


Had another day of trying to work quick and light. I'm thinking of calling it "drive-by coding".  The idea is to try and avoid getting stuck for too long on any one thing.

I managed to be good to my word of yesterday and get to work on some of the static site content issues that I had been putting off.  These were suggestions that had come out of feedback on the site from Charles and Freeranger.  Charles is a Sales specialist and we'd been working with him before the summer on the design of the static site.  We'd been having regular meetings with Charles and he was pushing for detailed documentation on what we would be offering to charities and non-profits in terms of hourly rates and detailed breakdowns of inception events and so forth. The attempts to pin us down on hourly rates up front, and then add his own hourly-rate to the inception packages made me feel ... strange.  It felt very "big design up-front" and not very Agile.  I felt like we needed to talk to individual non-profits about their needs; although part of it is that I wanted to focus on coding, and also that as more people signed up for our premium memberships we effectively had "customers" who we could talk to directly and try and evolve our service to make them happier and bring others on board.

Of course as Michael has pointed out, if we could land a good sizeable charity project, then that would dwarf the amounts coming in from premium memberships.  The difficulty for me is that the approach Charles was taking seemed to involve lots and lots of paperwork up front - trying to make decisions with little data about the market.  Maybe that's the way businesses should run?  Make a detailed business plan before talking to anybody outside, relying on your instinct to put the right kind of plan together.  Charles has lots of experience selling IT related things in the corporate world and some experience of the charity sector, so maybe I should be trusting his intuition, but my instinct told me to go with a softer incremental launch of the static site.

So I'd told Charles we'd do that soft launch and get back to him.  We pushed out the site to our internal group on Slack, and got some immediate feedback.  In particular we got very detailed feedback from Freeranger in a set of five issues on Github (see issues 36 through 40 on [https://github.com/AgileVentures/av-static-website/issues](https://github.com/AgileVentures/av-static-website/issues)), in which he wrote almost stream of consciousness as he explored the site.  Very valuable stuff, but also quite overwhelming.  I've talked about overloading before.  I think I do it to people a lot.  Freeranger and I have some things in common there :-)  Anyway, the concerns that Freeranger was raising were valid ones, but I was emotionally knocked back by the thought of what we needed to do.

Well, that's not entirely accurate.  We had made good progress before the summer on trying to address a number of the issues.  Probably the most complex was switching from the ghost blog as a separate site, to an integrated middleman-blog, which was a round about way of addressing a number of the navigation issues that Freeranger raised, and also reduced our need to maintain two separate copies of the CSS design.  Actually we created a summary ticket called ["Tweaking Ready for Release"](https://github.com/AgileVentures/av-static-website/issues/42) that only had a single thing outstanding on it, adding some more links in the about section.  Trying to pin down my feelings here, I think the concerns raised by Freeranger had knocked my confidence in the site.  Michael and I had done a fair amount of work to get it to a point for a soft launch.  We'd set about fixing the issues, but we'd done the engineering work and finally there was just content work (more or less) which I was loathe to subject Michael too, so I'd been putting it off and other items in my administrative agenda kept seeming to trump it.

So yesterday I forced it to the top of my morning agenda, at least partly inspired by enthusiasm from Marouen about getting some charity clients in, and I knocked off that immediate content work, and completed our tweaking for release ticket, yay!  I also went back through Freeranger's issues again slowly and carefully.  A lot of the feedback was great UX feedback about buttons vs nav and the consistency of using the back-button etc.  I spent some time responding how I thought some of our changes had now addressed some of the issues, and created other tickets for those we hadn't been able to quickly resolve (see issues 55 through 58 on [https://github.com/AgileVentures/av-static-website/issues](https://github.com/AgileVentures/av-static-website/issues).  I didn't get to the thing that probably concerns me the most, which is improving the images associated with some of the projects in the case-studies section; and that will have to wait till next week now.  That's more complex as it involves liasing with different project groups ...

But so I made progress in the morning with "drive-by administration" and got down to some coding in the afternoon with Michael.  It didn't feel like we made as much progress as the previous day, but in drive-by coding style we moved through the ProjectScope project where we spiked a time report that would help us assess if the heroku schedule was working as expected, and then on to WebSiteOne where, although I was getting all excited about a new event telemetry, creation flow, karma and premium promotion, I thought that if we were serious about keeping the Waffle board under control we really should address tickets in terms of their position in the board.

In my experience a project board can become a kind of dumping ground unless you are ruthless with it.  At least it's easy to leave a ticket hanging in the "in progress" column because it hasn't quite been resolved, and/or you're not sure what to do with it.  I'm starting to think that it's more dangerous to leave it there, eating up some of everyone's cognitive resources every time they review the board.  There's nothing like some empty columns to give people the motivation to take on new stuff.  Of course this means the process for getting tickets into the right columns and in priority order in the first place has to be good, but that's another story.  My new resolution is to close out old tickets with what we've learnt and then create new tickets based on more complex or uncertain stuff that arises.

So Michael and I "drove by" the WebSiteOne board taking on tickets where we could in the in-progress column. We fixed up some outstanding work on the stripe credit card change sad path, and got the PR ready for review. We jumped on the "out of memory" issue and got in a quick PR that might help us explore (if not fix) the issue.  Drive on - we started on the issue that the site admin is not alerted when slack invites fail, since we were realising we wanted a similar alert system as an extension to the card change fail for stripe.

I'm liking the narrative that's emerging about sticking to what's organised on the board to help you work with the team, and keep the decks clear for when bigger issues arise.  Avoid things gathering dust.  And then also driving-by tickets, getting a little action, furiously making other tickets so that a sliver of work can be marked closed. Then longer more complex follow-ups can be evaluated on subsequent passes.

Now I really must go sort Heroku who's now charging us to high heaven for our group account.  There's no point in us bringing in loads of new premium members if we can't keep our server costs down.  Heroku might give us leniency as a charity, but I won't hold my breath.  Mustn't let this one slide ...

Videos associated with this blog:
--------------------

* [ProjectScope Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gx4mgVQuyzo)

* [WebSiteOne Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GDPrd9ixTAU)

* ["Kent Beck" scrum](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E5bH5F-EaOc)
