Over the weekend, in conflict with my general rule about working on Saturdays and Sundays, I lead a couple of "Bob Martin" scrums.  My standards about working at the weekend for health and sanity have been chipped away at by me leading a Mentive class on Saturday evenings and doing Premium Plus pairing sessions on Sundays.  A few AsyncVoter folks have availability at the weekend but had been having trouble coordinating.  We moved the weekend scrums from 10am to 2pm but it still wasn't quite clicking.  2pm on Saturday and Sunday is when I'd usually nap to allow me to recover from the rigors of the week.  And the rigors of the weekend!  As soccer coach for Harrow St. Marys under-eights I run a training session every Saturday morning from 10:30am to noon.  I need to get to the local park at 9:45am to get everything set up.  No drinking or late Friday nights - you really don't want to be coaching kids with a hangover, or even on a slight sleep deficit.  Post lunch I need to do team selection for the Sunday morning league game, and then get my eldest son to guitar practise before a run to the supermarket and making supper.  

Pushing myself to run weekend scrums is not without a cost, but I really want AgileVentures to survive and to thrive.  In some ways starting a weekend scrum is a stop gap for interface, training and documentation deficiencies on the part of the AgileVentures community and software.  Having run countless online scrums with hangouts I can pretty much ensure that the scrum starts on time, that the appropriate channels are pinged etc.  For other developers focusing on getting their bit of code done this can sometimes not happen, e.g. the scrum doesn't start, or there's a technical problem or what have you.  Despite enthusiasm during the week for my running of the weekend scrums, no one from the AsyncVoter project showed up.  Life happens, there are things to do, but it will probably take a few weekends of me regularly running the scrums before people "trust" that I'll be there.  I'm a strong believer in doing things repeatedly at the same time to get people into the habit :-)

Still Michael was there, and on Saturday we had Arbaz from Pakistan who admitted to being very nervous about joining a scrum for his MOOC assignment, but said it was awesome when we voted together on a LocalSupport story, and he submitted several pull requests over the weekend.  On Sunday it was just Michael and myself, but it gave me the opportunity to suggest to Michael that we do some "cross-pairing" on Monday.  I'd been concerned on Thursday and Friday that we'd ended up in triples with Michael and I stepping on each others toes trying to help people.  We wanted to make progress on both AsyncVoter and WebSiteOne fronts and I felt like we might move faster if we split our forces and created separate hangouts, pairing with others where possible.  Michael said this might work with sufficient support and organisation.

We tried this out Monday and I think it went quite well.  I ended up pairing with Matt on the PayPal integration, and Michael paired with Arreche on the AsyncVoter slack bot testing framework.   Matt was largely watching me work on PayPal as it was all related to the AgileVentures paypal account which only I had access to.  Although we created a PayPal sandbox account which in principle I could give other team-members access to.  It took a couple of solid hours either side of lunch to get a custom PayPal form (we had to drop the hosted button) to get a variable passed back at the end of the transaction that would allow us to know which user had signed up to Premium using PayPal.   However the return to the AgileVentures site at the end of the PayPal transaction was not automatic.  The user had to press a rather in-obtrusive button and that seemed unreliable to me.

Michael broke from pairing with Arreche and dropped in to our sessions to hear the issue and came up with a StackOverflow hit about a setting for PayPal that would make the direction automatic.  I'd ended up napping after lunch (witness lack of naps on the weekend) so our hangout was broken over the "Kent Beck" scrum, although I ran it in a different browser to keep both going.  Then a sponsor meeting cropped up, we'd (me and the sponsor) had confused the times, so we had to break anyway.  Michael went back to pairing with Arreche.  I finished up the PayPal round trip, getting the automatic return set up (not without drowning in the PayPal interfaces), and helping Matt debug issues with starting hangouts and slack pinging.  He needed to enable Hangouts at http://youtube.com/my_live_events and I had either broken the Slack pings when I disabled hubot (or our Slack token had expired).  Michael called me into his hangout with Arreche to help them on a block with using the Cucumber Yada JS framework with BotMock.  I noticed they were pairing in the broadcast finished WebSiteOne hangout.  I tried to encourage Michael to start a new AsyncVoter hangout and take it live, but he said he was focusing on this problem.  I thought that was ironic because I'd just interrupted by work on the PayPal problem to come over and help him.

I talked through some of the related issues I'd encountered using BotMock in the integration tests which may or may not have helped, but it seemed to give them a lead.  I totally understand about wanting to be task focused.  I notice that a significant number of folks don't start the broadcasts in their AV hangouts.  I guess I've always got part of my mind on the bigger picture that I want the AgileVentures video library to be increasing, that we're always providing raw material for others to watch and review and potentially learn.  I also want pairing sessions to be announced in the relevant channels so that folks can see the activity and potentially join so we can build.  I don't expect everyone else to understand or believe in those higher goals.  However when you are using the free aspects of a system it's nice to consider how others benefit.  It's the same mentality as open source.  Others have made something available for you to freely use, so it's good to think about contributing your improvements or insights back to the community.

I started back to my PayPal work and told Michael that I'd be happy to interrupt it and drop back in again if he started an AsyncVoter hangout.  At the end of the day Michael and Arreche had gotten something working and I had the PayPal round trip validated and pushed into GitHub.  Michael was saying how there solution was kind of hard coded and my PayPal spike would need testing and refactoring.  Overnight though it seems that Arreche made more progress, and I'm looking forward to more days of cross-pairing and making progress on multiple fronts :-)

###Related Videos:

* ["Bob Martin" Saturday Scrum](https://youtu.be/HvjP8OnJelg)
* ["Bob Martin" Sunday Scrum](https://youtu.be/NSZ0my-DWmQ)
* ["Martin Fowler" Scrum](https://youtu.be/44lvtYeIPDU)
* [Pairing on WSO](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gCAzF2s2uYs)
* ["Kent Beck" Scrum](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GK0qPZnYi84)
* [Pairing on WSO](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VunzjidNLrk)
