---
title: Anatomy of a Question
date: 2016-10-04
tags: question answer Q&A forum stackoverflow quora student learner blocking slack instantmessage voting locking
author: Sam Joseph
---

It’s really interesting to hear that [StackOverflow might be on the decline](https://hackernoon.com/the-decline-of-stack-overflow-7cb69faa575d#.frp6i4ncr).  John Sleger writes a really interesting [blog post](https://hackernoon.com/the-decline-of-stack-overflow-7cb69faa575d#.frp6i4ncr) detailing some of the issues that the community is having.  In summary the suggestion is that StackOverflow is not as friendly to newcomers as it used to be, and that some of the reputation enabled moderators are running parts of the site with rather strict rules about what can and cannot be posted.

I’ve always encouraged students and colleagues to post on StackOverflow and I know they’ve had some bad experiences, but also some good ones.  I offer “StackOverflow protection” to all my students assuring them that if they post on StackOverflow and anyone gives them any grief then I will get in there, and star and upvote their question and provide support and feedback on how to adjust their question in order to maximise its chances of getting a good answer, even if I don’t answer it myself.  What I encourage everyone to do is post their SO question and then take a link to it and post that into our slack [#techtalk](https://agileventures.slack.com/messages/techtalk/) channel with a @here to attract anyone who’s online and a @tansaku to attract my attention.

In the past I’ve also encouraged students who were contacting me directly via instant message to post their questions on StackOverflow.  Very often students would be extremely reticent about doing this. Here are two examples of students who ultimately posted on SO following my suggestions:

* [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/28678092/how-to-change-recursive-method-into-non-recursive-one-in-js](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/28678092/how-to-change-recursive-method-into-non-recursive-one-in-js)

* [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/30920118/cucumber-test-which-syntax-to-choose-to-test-a-radio-button-selection](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/30920118/cucumber-test-which-syntax-to-choose-to-test-a-radio-button-selection)

In one case my upvote cancelled out a -1 from someone else who didn’t like the question, and if you look carefully you can see me teasing out additional information from students in the comments section, and as it happens, I ultimately answered the students' questions on StackOverflow.  My sense is the majority of students would really rather not post on StackOverflow, or any public forum if at all possible.  As I’ve mentioned before, many students contact me one to one via emails or instant message.  It seems that this is something they generally prefer, to ask questions in private.

I’ve really struggled with that as an instructor because I know about the studies showing how others students can get massive learning benefits from hearing the dialogue between other students and their instructor.  It’s also much less efficient for me to be answering the same question repeatedly in private than in an open forum, and the numbers of students in a MOOC make one to one support completely impractical, particularly when I’m doing it on a volunteer basis.  I still encourage students and colleagues to post in open forums, but I’m beginning to see that when someone comes to you with a question, it’s somewhat dangerous to block them on it.

Let me explain.  Blocking is when you try and divert the direction that someone is going in.  I’ve realized belatedly that I do it far too much, and often on the wrong occasions.  I think StackOverflow is guilty of it as well in places.  Slegers’ blog post talks about questions being pushed away as “off-topic” but I think StackOverflow should be open to evolving the kinds of questions and discussions it supports.  They want to be a pithy and terse set of purely technical Q&As, but I think that blocks a lot of potential value from the discussions people want to have.  I believe the SO founders set up https://www.discourse.org/ to be an alternate system where discussion could evolve.

Anyhow, my main point is that there is a tricky balance when dealing with a question that comes in. Part of it is economic.  When I’m working with university or bootcamp students, I’m in a context where my time is being paid for, and the student is paying for my support.  If they’re not comfortable asking in a public forum, then I’ve got to be careful not to put too much pressure on them; and yet, potentially they (and their other paying classmates) could really benefit if they did.  Of course ultimately the student has to be the judge of whether they are emotionally ready to post on a public forum.

I’m no fan of the locking or downvoting of questions.  I think down voting should be reserved for answers only on SO.  Hmm, maybe we need to create our own alternative for AgileVentures … because for me personally, I’ve got a thick skin - at least as far as it goes on online forums.  I could care less if people are down voting my question or locking it.  Although clearly it makes sense to read the posting guidelines and try and conform on any forum.  

The other thing I sense is that students and learners may often feel like they have to wrestle with a problem for some specified set of time before asking for help.  I guess I understand that, but when I’m stuck on a problem I want the whole world to be able to help if possible.  Check out this question that I asked on the Maths stack exchange:

* [http://math.stackexchange.com/questions/1477767/efficiently-partition-a-set-into-all-possible-unique-pair-combinations](http://math.stackexchange.com/questions/1477767/efficiently-partition-a-set-into-all-possible-unique-pair-combinations)

I don’t want to suffer in silence.  If I’m stuck on something for longer than 20 minutes, I want to write it up, get it on SO, in a blog, on slack - document my process and share what I’m doing with others.  Ultimately as in that maths question I may end up solving it myself, but I want to get input and insights from as many people as possible.  Where I am now though, I think I will only ever push learners very gently to publish on group forums.  I hope we have a nice atmosphere in AgileVentures where people can ask questions in safety.  Sleger laments that neither Quora nor StackOverflow provide this any more, so perhaps AV should provide persistent Q&A outside Slack?  I still get huge value from SO though - I don’t find myself posting there so much but I’m always finding useful stuff in the SO results in Google.  I love the SO interface and hate to reinvent the wheel.  There are some open source alternatives …

[https://www.quora.com/Is-there-an-open-source-alternative-to-StackOverflow-I-can-use-for-internal-Q-A](https://www.quora.com/Is-there-an-open-source-alternative-to-StackOverflow-I-can-use-for-internal-Q-A)
