So I'm just coming off the back of another half-term that I (mostly) took off to spend time with my family.  Ever since my first son was born and money was a little tight I've tried to squeeze every working moment out of a day, and I think I may be suffering from a "more haste, less speed" situation.  Well who knows, I just don't know what the key is.  Pour your energy and effort into something and you can easily burn out, spin your wheels, miss the wood for the trees.

I did work Tuesday last week inbetween trips away to get a few things done, such as pushing out the week 1 MOOC materials, pay some bills and stuff I can't now remember.  I had a few people phoning me while I was away - I need to talk to them about switching to email.  My wife suggested there are two sorts of people - the ones who prefer to commmunicate in writing and the others who prefer to just talk.  I love both, but I really don't like being called out of the blue.  Maybe I've really got to upgrade to gandi's premium mail plan, or move to a different provider, in order to get proper "on annual leave" messages from my sam@agileventures.org email address.

Anyway, back at the keyboard again, listened to another podcast during my morning jog and tweeted and slacked that without getting too distracted by email and Slack.  Whenever I come back from these little breaks I seem to spend most of the day working through the communications backlog.  I'm still nervous about cashflow to support my kids, but there are green shoots.  Next week we've got our AgileVentures online design sprint.  There's a famous quote about how if you want to get people to build ships, that rather then teach them ship building, that you should inspire them to crave the experience of the wide open sea.  I'm hoping the design sprint can be something of a vision quest where the community comes together over a vision that can drive itself forward.

Then two weeks after that I'm running an in-person design sprint for a closed source educational project.  Fingers crossed that'll pay for my kids extra-curricular music, sports and travel for when I'm taking my seventh week breaks to spend time with them.  As I was saying to a couple of relatives over the weekend, I start to see the appeal of a straightforward job with a job description and a reliable, regular salary; although maybe those don't exist anymore?   Feels like some people must have them.  The difficult with being my own boss (of my private company and the AgileVentures charity) is that every day I've got to be weighing up the pros and cons of how I spend each minute of each hour.  Will this activity generate value?  Will that?

It's not a very in the moment "mindful" way to be.  I've just read "Leap" by Steve Taylor, which suggests that Eckhart Tolle-esque spiritual awakenings are not that rare.  Those are enlightenment moments where future and past disappear and you become totally engrossed in the moment, combined with the dissolution of any sense of separation between yourself and the rest of the world.  There are also overtones of everything (plants, rocks, inanimate objects) all being infused with a benign consciousness or aliveness.  Just typing it out I remember this concept of "flow" from the gaming and education/skills literature which has some of the first, and maybe second, aspects where you become totally engrossed in a task.  Another thing I did yesterday was write out a list of the different competing narratives that struggle for supremacy in my head - quite of a few of them being anxiety strains.  I'd love to have an awakening moment.  I managed to sit in a deck chair looking at the sky for half an hour on Saturday.  I'd love to have a mechanism to just shut down all the trains of thought when they're not necessary, but I feel like I'm a long way from achieving any kind of awakening described in these books.

In the absence of some spontaneous awakening the key appears to be observing your thoughts rather than getting swept away by them.  I'm forever getting swept away in my thoughts and reactions.  Be the mountain they say, let the thoughts pass by as clouds.  Easier said than done.  That said, before the break, I did manage to "wake up" in some conversations and group meetings.  For some reason it's group interaction that's the hardest to stay "present" in.  People say things, you react, they react; it's almost like running on auto-pilot.  To be able to stop and really consciously respond from a place of consideration ... if there's some other trick it eludes me.  Till then it's back in the saddle.  Keep observing those thoughts, keep trying to "awake" in conversations and meetings, try not to let the minute by minute evaluation of the "worth" of an activity get in the way of mindfulness of the moment.
