Woke up late, behind schedule.  Kids are off school so helping them with Japanese and coding homework in the morning can easily burn time.  Feel like I'm crazily juggling private projects and catch up with all the AgileVentures projects.  Reality is that with the mobs, marketing meetings, and project meetings for AutoGraders, WSO, LocalSupport, AsyncVoter and Autograders that's already a completely full week for me.

So not really time to review anything in the AV ecosystem extensively this morning.  I'm thinking I might have to put the project meetings on a fortnightly schedule in order to focus on private projects in the off weeks.  Yesterday I was so rushed I didn't really consult my action plan and totally missed updating the #general channel with the day's schedule for AV.  Maybe I should automate that ... there's something comforting about the semi-automated approach where there's still some manual involvement as it allows me to make tweaks at the last minute, but really got to automate as much admin as possible.  The repeating slack reminders do seem really helpful - would love to be able to update them programmatically from WSO, but at the moment the trade off between the time spent automating any indiviudual task and then just getting it done in the moment.

The WSO fixes for the scrum updates don't seem to have worked, urgh.  I guess the most I can do right now is push live the getting started changes that I made yesterday and move on.  Got to have some kind of focus on simplify, automate, eliminate, delegate over the coming weeks to get this ship back in shape ...
