So I'm writing this blog while text chatting with an HMRC tax representative trying to work out how to pay my tax bill online.  This is my get one item off my desk a day activity.  Just after writing that sentence I got to the tax representative and got guided through creating an online account, but the payment service is offline till Feb 17th, so I can't technically clear my desk, since I'll need to add an action item to my list, but at least I can clear away the paper bills and make them go "digital".  I also signed up for paperless billing in the future, so hopefully they'll be less paperwork cluttering up my desk in the future.

The process for motivating oneself to get all these little things is strange, at least for me.  I really can't bear the thought of working through all the papers on my desk.  Chipping away a little at a time seems like the only strategy.  What's difficult and/or frustrating is the variable amounts of time that dealing with each individual "item" can take.  I'd been psyching myself up to get to this tax bill, clearing other items before it, and it had finally got to the top of my "mental" pile, if not the physical one.  As I was climbing the stairs today I said to myself "ah, I can just pay that directly from a different account, and avoid depleting the current account that I use for day to day affairs".  Naively I thought I could just do a bank transfer, as I do for my company tax payments, but not so.  Once I'd pulled the bill out it only had a payslip.  I could have written a cheque and sent it off, but then it might come out of my account at an inconvenient moment and money is a little tight at present.

I couldn't bear the thought of phoning the tax office and going on hold, so I was pleased to be able to use their chat solution.  Ironically I still wasn't able to pay, but at least I am now in principle set up to pay online before the deadline.  The whole process has taken up about 30 minutes, during which I might have been blogging more thoroughly, but there might be some long term gains, in terms of taking the process digital in future.  I reflect that one's perception of how long things will take is affected by many factors, and that very often one's estimates end up being faulty.  Spiritually I'm trying to really live in the moment, at the moment; and all moments :-), with varying degrees of success, but at least occasional with laughter :-)

Another version of me might have ranted about the lack of the UK government digital wherewithal, but they do seem to be going in the right direction.  Of course I think as a taxpayer I should have much more control about how the money I contribute is spent.  The democratic process of voting for a representative who will have some influence on my behalf seems remarkably error prone and imprecise.  Although that said, I have been having a productice conversation with my local M.P. (Gareth Thomas, Labour) about traffic safety near local schools.  More on that on another occasion, but I recently discovered there's a name for the idea I've long held dear about individual taxpayers choosing where their tax goes.  It's called [Tax Choice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tax_choice), and apparently Romania has implemented it to some degree.  I was speaking to an extended family member from Romania over the break and hearing about how it's something they have to register for, and some people do it and some people don't.

The US has a reasonable system, in my opinion, with contributions to non-profits being tax deductable, so you can effectively reduce your tax payments by choosing deserving causes.  It's not quite the same however, as you're not just allocating your tax, you're also allocating your own funds as well.  In the UK we have GiftAid, which allows your charitable contributions to be added to by the government, but it doesn't reduce your tax bill.  You can make tax-deductibale charitable contributions in the UK if you are a company, or if your employer is signed up to a just-giving scheme, which is all rather too complicated if you ask me.

While I've totally got sidetracked from my intended focus on motivation, it does all link up.  People's donation to charitable causes is going to be related to their perception of how easy it is to do, and the possible associated benefits to themselves.  Where I was thinking about motivation yesterday was how I've been putting off promoting the [AV nonprofits site](http://nonprofits.agileventures.org) that Michael, Raoul and I collaborated on last year.  We had some detailed constructive criticism from Freeranger that made me feel a little embarressed about distributing it widely.  We gradually worked through various of the issues, but there were a couple of wonky screenshots in the case-studies that I got stuck on.

Working through all the little fixes I got distracted by implementing the payment frameworks in the main developer site, and getting new screenshots for the case-studies felt like a fiddling difficult thing.  At least partly because they were other projects and I was waiting on UI improvements to be implemented.  As we were discussing the non-profit site in the marketing meeting yesterday, I made a bit of a breakthrough to push it forward.  Lara had a great new UI design for the MetPlus project that I pulled in, and I went in and editing the SnowAngels UI myself.  The static site on middleman is actuallyu super easy to change compared to some sorts of changes on the main developer site.  Within thirty minutes I had the changes up, and then in another thirty I had a couple of Google AdWords ads set up to try and help drive traffic to that site for charities and non-profits who might need IT solutions.

Feels good to get it done, and funny in retrospect how it seemed such a blocker.  Will this generate any paying leads?  We'll see.  It feels like there are a lot of other minor tweaks to be made in the "funnels" through the various sites that might lead developers and organisations to the point that they are contributing financially to the support of AgileVentures.  I did have a couple of hours spare for coding yesterday, but one went on ensuring all the Premium members are correctly represented in the database, and another hour doing a tech test that might lead to some income for me personally on a closed source project.  We've got a few more folks joinging the WebSiteOne project recently, but I don't feel in a position to assign folks to work on particular parts of the funnel.  Motivation is complicated and I think we need to allow things to drift into place rather than force them ...

###Related Videos:

* ["Martin Fowler" scrum](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2K-Rt8y2_Hk)
* [Marketing meeting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUtVHE5mJW8)
* ["Kent Beck" scrum](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zOCxl7D1LeM)
