Okay, I think I'm coming out of the jet-lag - still not sure things are making sense though, and there's a lot of yak-shaving to get back to the workface.  I wrote two AV ecosystem review pieces on Thursday and Friday last week and I have to refer to them to remember what I worked out.  I was trying to review the changes I made to the "Getting Started" and Premium pages at the end of the June.  Alot of that seems to be me poring over Google Analytics stats and being a little unclear about the difference between "bounce rate", "exit rate" and "drop off".  I'm starting to get clarity that the "bounce rate" only refers to "single visit sessions", and is only calculated for visits that start on the page in question.  We saw a fairly substantial improvement in the bounce rate from the previous month and the same period the previous year, implying that more people landing on the "Getting Started" page are sticking around on our site.  The exit rate was also improving.  The exit rate is the percentage for all pageviews of a page that were the last in the users session.

Bounce rate - Of all the sessions that started on a page, how many did not click through to any other page in the site
Exit rate - Of all views of a page, what percentage where the last in the that users session
Drop off - Of all the sessions including this page, what percentage did the session end here?

I'm thinking that the difference in exit rate and drop off is due to the calculations being based on page views and sessions including a page respectively.  Where sessions may include the same page more than once, hence the exit rate can be 29% and the dropoff rate be 37% (222/595) for the same period (July '17).  So overall, all the stats are going in the right direction following the changes to the "Getting Started" page, and I've burned a chunk of time here which perhaps I should have been spending on my next wheeze, which is splitting up the "Getting Started" page into a series of pages so that we can track the approximate flow through it via Google Analytics.  I'm thinking this might be simpler and more incrementally testable than trying to build a tracking system for users that reports back their progress.  I suspect that could be very powerful and useful to, but I think that the content is critical too and we can move faster making changes there (given our limited resources) ...

The Yak-shaving I thought I was going to be doing this morning was following up with dropbox and github about image embeds, but that's because I thought I was going to have to reconstruct another July blog.  Ironically there was enough wrangling just working out what I was writing up last week! :-)

I guess it might still be a few days before I make any more explicit changes, as there's the Premium page and other changes to review, but perhaps tomorrow I can take a quick stab at a sequence of getting started pages (one for each numbered element) and then leave that "in the oven" to come back in a month and review, assuming that I've really undertstood all these Google Analytic ideas.  That said, as long as things are going in approximately the right direction, perhaps perfect clarity is not as critical as I sometimes believe ...
