I didn't have any Premium pairing this Sunday, and my twin boys' football match was rained off, so I had a relatively calm day, staying completely off Slack and Email.  I collapsed after lunch and slept for three hours - catching up lost sleep from the week where I'd been up in the night a few times.  The last couple of weeks hasn't been great sleep-wise.  A sudden alertness at 4am and then unable to get back to sleep without listening to an hour of audio comedy.  Not that I don't try to just relax for an hour, but after an hour of the same work and relationship thoughts going round in my head I get sick of it, and find the audio comedy is a reasonably pleasant way of changing my internal dialogue.

I end up feeling a bit of a failure when Steve Hagen and Eckhart Tolle say that there's a simple step to enlightenment or awakeness available in every moment, and that we're all supposed to be equipped to realise it. I had lots of moments of awareness/self-observation over the weekend, but that didn't stop me from blowing up in a rage at my kids on two or three occasions.  I've got to balance that against the points when I didn't blow up in a rage, or didn't resist the moment and wrestle it forcefully into something that it currently wasn't.  It's funny, but I see an analogy with the Empire Strikes Back where Yoda tells Luke that he shouldn't go off to help his friends (Han and Leia), because by turning aside from his main task he'll threaten what they fight for.  Ironically Luke rushes to save his friends, but they save themselves and he isn't the one who effects their escape.

I loved Star Wars growing up, but with the subsequent movies and a jaundiced adult eye it all seems rather trite and very militaristic; sort of glorifying a sanitised violence where no one actually bleeds.  Still I can't help but notice that when I try to resist my children's moods directly; when I try to prevent one from screaming their displeasure at another, that I seem to make the situation worse and not better.  Far more effective recently is not to resist their upset.  Naturally I still physically intervene if it's actually coming to blows; but what I'm reducing is my protestations of "of course if you scream at him he's not going to let you have it", and so the reactions that I would get to those statements, e.g. "well he's being rude to me and has made me upset" don't fly back.  When I try to control the situation what I get is lots of justifications from each child about why their own bad behaviour is inevitable as a result of the poor behaviour of the other party.

Interestingly a lot of adult conversations can go the same way, and I've been guilty in the past of making justification after justification, when I'm starting to realise that "defending your corner", so to speak, has a tendency to provoke additional attack.  I still have huge trouble with statements I disagree with.  I really find it difficult not to respond to them.  I feel like not responding is somehow tacit agreement.  That letting a statement stand unopposed is tantamount to conceding that it is the truth.   That's just my perception - is there any truth in it?  Do other people think that the last unopposed statement reflects the group concensus? I'd be interested to know ...

On Friday we had various meetings, and what I'm grudgingly realising more and more is that my tendency to challenge statements I disagree with can make for longer and longer meetings.  I think I actually did a better job than usual.  I stayed in the moment in one meeting, frustrated that someone had said something that contradicted my own assertion, but realising to confront it would be to drag out part of the meeting, when I was judging that actually it was more important to move on to other things.  Who knows if that was the right decision?  Like the foolish(?) neighbour who keeps congratulating the wise(?) farmer in the zen riddle, when does the story ever end?  When do we find out the true extent of all the consequences of every decision?  Never?

So the most important thing is not being taken over by the "unconscious" reaction to any situation?  Let the situation be; give yourself time to observe your internal mental state and then allow a "conscious" reaction to emerge?  Will that allow things to get better?  Let's not attach ourselves to outcomes.  Let's focus on being conscious in the current moment.  Maybe that's the way to achieve true balance ... 

###Related Videos:

* ["Martin Fowler" scrum](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=drjxg5Gc_tQ)
* ["Kent Beck" scrum and WSO Kick Off](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3OZx8NrT2FA)
* [BetaSaaSers AutoGraders meeting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8tY4Tvew9Xs)


