I'm heading into London on the train for day 4 as we have a location switch for the last two days.  The last three days we've been in a somewhat remote location which would be difficult for testers to reach, so the last two days are in central London.  Yesterday (day 3) involved the usual art museum, heat maps and speed critiques of our three different prototype designs.  Given there were only three of us there was plenty of time to discuss them, reflect on them and vote on them.  By lunch we'd ended up with most of the votes on my own design, and there seemed agreement that we were all pretty much on the same page.

After lunch we started storyboarding and it was clear that there was some confusion.  There was the issue of the extent to which our small prototype would reflect the operation of the rest of the site.  It had seemed that we had agreed on a particular prototyping approach by selecting a particular prototype, but there was concern from one member that what we prototyped wouldn't reflect the overall site experience.  As we went back and forth the terms "press-pack" and "trailer" floated out.  It came down to distinguishing between sites where the experience before you signed in reflected what you got once you were signed up and those where that wasn't the case.  Both valid approaches and their effectiveness dependent on the nature of your target demographic.

There was a fairly long debate, but ultimately we settled on the prototype that was largely as I had envisioned.  Offering the user a small sense of one particular aspect of the site experience and seeing how they would react to that and to the idea that they'd need to sign up (and pay) to access more.  Ultimately we had our storyboard and agreement on our storyboard and hopefully a shared understanding about what we would be achieving over the next two days.
