So, another cold.  Not as bad as the last one, fingers crossed.  I didn't collapse, just scratchy throat and now a slight stuffy nose; feeling lethargic but still going by chewing lots of raw ginger.  I'm also maxing out on Eckhart Tolle's "Power of Now".  Reading it for like the sixth time after Steve Hagen's "Buddhism plain and simple" reminded me of it.  Tolle says one of the worst things about illness is the ego's perception of it.  I know I get really frustrated with getting ill.  It's thinking about the time it will take to get back to full health that's most depressing.  Tolle is all about just experiencing the moment, staying with the feeling, and you know I think there's something in that.  So I have a cold, but why add extra worry and frustration on top of the purely physical symptons, which by themselves (at least on this occasion) are not too bad.

I think staying in the moment is helping me stay calm with my boys, who do seem to generally be able to push my buttons in places where I didn't even think I had buttons.  I think I'm often trying to escape from my feelings.  Email, Slack, work, iPlayer, food, keeping busy; all great ways to avoid focusing on how I'm actually feeling.  Tolle talks about how conscious awareness can be transformative if you stay with your feelings, which was what my mother was always telling me to do.  It's so easy to get consumed by an unconscious, knee-jerk reaction to whatever is happening, or throw oneself into an activity to escape what feels like an unpleasant moment.  I can still feel my habitual reactions tugging at me, but is there a new increase in my conscious remaining in the moment with my feeling?

I'm trying to create more space inside myself when I'm listening to people in scrum meetings, doing the Agile Book Club podcast, generally.  I've always been inspired by Thích Nhất Hạnh's quote about how truly listening to someone is the greatest gift you can give them.  Steve Hagen and Eckhart Tolle appear to concur, and it's ironic given how truly awful I generally am at listening to people :-) I've got such a strong mental dialogue going on that it spills into conversations.  The ABC podcast yesterday went pretty well I think, but at the end I had a bubbling over of ideas and thoughts, and Ashley calmly said a couple of times "You've said a lot there Sam".  What a wonderful influence she and Michael are.  I've now got an example on tape of me doing that other thing I do, "overloading".  Overloading and blocking, the two potential harmful communication habits I have, and that I identified towards the start of this year of blogging.

Not sure if I've mentioned it already, but I've resolved not to block anyone in a group setting going forward.  I've realised it's rarely anything but counterproductive.  If I want to suggest an alternative to someone I'll do it 121 at a later time, with a request about whether the timing is appropriate and in the form of a question.  Not sure if I can be so effective in avoiding the overloading, but being aware of the problem is half the battle :-)
