The final part of the FutureLearn interview was a chat with a client specialist and front end developer, with questions about my experiences in teams and working with clients.  I enjoyed the conversation, and it allowed me to articulate something that I've been thinking over and over again and still have trouble putting into practice.  It's this process of avoiding blocking people, and what to do instead.  I use the term blocking to mean disagreeing, correcting grammar/pronunciation, ignoring suggestions.  A whole range of things.  Now sometimes it's important to block.  I don't think one should never block, but that blocking always come with a cost.  Generally when people are speaking they are trying to get something across, some idea or opinion or what have you.  Maybe some enlightened folks are really not bothered to be blocked, but many of us, if we are making the effort to say something, would probably prefer to be allowed to fully express our thought.

Some might relish being blocked in that they enjoy a heated argument, and all power to them; but the danger is that the heated discussion that two people are enjoying (at some level) is not much fun for other people who are present at the same time.  Anyway, so one of the FutureLearn folks asked me "so you don't mean to say you should never disagree with anything?", and I replied that I almost did.  Not that I've been much good at this, but the process for deciding whether to bring up a block should include some consideration of the number of people involved.  Are you talking one on one, or is this a group meeting with 15?  Also, how important is it really?  Is the building on fire and if people don't stop talking and leave now they're all going to die?  Also, are you in a position of some seniority and tasked with, or simply feel responsible for helping a group or individual feel good about at least some aspects of what they are doing, and empowered to take on challenges; learn from their own mistakes etc.?

I'm not sure if it's my academic background, but my tedency for a long time has been to treat any problem like a mathematical or logical statement.  It's as if people are coming up to me and saying "2+2=4" and I'll say "go on ...", or they're saying "1+1=3" and I'll say "actually I think you mean ...", with little consideration for anything other than my perception of the logical coherence of what they're saying.  The clear problems with this approach is that my mental model of the world is just that, mine.  I have no monopoly on logical coherent views of the universe, and indeed how important is logical coherence anyway?  Furthermore I'm not usually thinking about how people might feel about being blocked.  I'd like to think I am slowly getting better at this, but who knows :-) What I'm starting to come round to thinking is that in the majority of situations that how people feel is far more important than whether what they are saying is objectively correct or not.  I think that partly follows from my own basic assumption that there is no objective correctness.  Everything is subjective.

My own sense that everything is subjective should in principle prepare me for the great differences between people's mental models of the world.  The faulty assumption on my part seems to be that the majority of people are interested in investing in time in getting to the bottom of these differences.  I really enjoy pulling apart what I'm thinking about to try and work out what assumptions I'm working on, debating the relative merits of different approaches, but I'm a bit of an outlier there, maybe ... or maybe that all depends on who I'm hanging out with on a particular week?

Anyhow, Ruben at Makers Academy recommmended to me that it's better to ask questions than contradict people, and I laugh at myself for how difficult this seems to be for me to do.  However I've been reformulating in my head recently, that the key thing is questioning rather than asserting.  As I said to the FutureLearn people, it's all about assessing how important your own concern is, and then working out whether it's actually important to make a block.  If someone is trying to convince your friend to jump off a cliff, perhaps it is critical to jump in with a block, but even then perhaps a question about consequences is better?  And is it vital that the question is now in front of the group, or is it better to ask the question one on one?  My new resolution is stop making assertions, ask more questions and prefer to ask those questions to the smallest subset of people ... we'll see how that goes :-)

