I'm tired today.  Busy weekend.  Back to coaching kids football Saturday morning, "Bob Martin" scrum, taking eldest to guitar practice and round the supermarket and making supper.  Relatively calm Saturday evening, but then a frantic Sunday, with my youngests' first football match in a higher division, and then a dash across London to a relative's house before a surprise holiday treat for the boys; a trip to see a live game.  Back late, and didn't get to sleep till late working through the muddy clearup from the morning's football.

Monday fairly full on with all the boys back at school, so doing the school run in the morning for the twins, and then a full day.  Some reasonable progress.  New marketing intern welcomed to Slack and introduced to some other team members, new SPOCs made for instructors, performance testing on drie's new EU servers (not as fast as we'd like) and drie catchup meeting, now scheduled for every Monday to push things forward.  Managed to watch an episode of [ScaleYourCode](https://scaleyourcode.com/interviews/interview/13) where Nathan Harvey of Chef showed how to manage deployment to ec2 via the hosted Chef system.  Suddenly I understand what chef, puppet, ansible etc. do and how they're different from docker and vagrant.  All great prep for the DevOps conference talk I'm giving next week.

Spent the evening reviewing the videos from the kids football and writing up the match report and all the areas we can improve, and got to bed later than I'd hoped.  Last two nights I had to use audio standup comedy on spotify to help me get to sleep because I can't stop thinking and planning for the football or for AgileVentures.  Two cups of real coffee got me through yesterday.  Hoping to drop back to one today.  We'll see.  Part of the problem was checking email just before bed - really must stop doing that.  I used to be better, but since working at home for the last year, there's an extra desire to keep checking.  I really want to get myself into the black financially, i.e. compensating myself for all the hours I'm putting into AgileVentures.  I want to be able to keep being able to pay for my kids activities, music, gym, football, karate, and take them on trips.

Funny thing is that getting stressed about it all really doesn't seem to help.  I definitely suffer from pushing too hard.  I want to squeeze every last second out of the day.  I'm writing out Japanese language quizzes for my kids during breakfast, listening to technical podcasts on the walk back from dropping them off at school, fitting in physio on my knee during my breaks from coding, reviewing the new RSpec book during my lunch break, catching up with Slack/Email while waiting for my kids to do their activities in the evenings, and then finally trying to publish blogs from the previous day just before I go to bed.

If I'm on top of my game I can manage it all.  Under the weather or taking on too much at the weekend, and it's a grind; difficult to focus.  It just requires a careful balance.  I've gotten pretty good at not booking too many things, but sometimes the long range planning will lead to a jam, e.g. the football season starts a week earlier than I anticipated.  The football coaching is a big commitment; logistics during the week, and 30+ Sat/Sun mornings throughout the year, but the boys love it!  And I enjoy having an activity at the weekend that gets me out in the open air communicating with others.  Although it can all get pretty emotional too :-)

What I'd really like is a consistent pattern of hibernation in the UK.  Like the countries closer to the equator to us have a siesta in the heat of midday, I think those closer to the poles should have a hibernation period when the days are shortest.  After Xmas/NewYear, I'd like two weeks where I was allowed to just sleep.  Another 10 years.  Get the kids off to university and I might be able to MVP a mid-winter hibernation.  At least the daily blog writing gives me a calm thirty minutes to pull myself together after the school run.  Not sure that publishing these is helping us achieve our AgileVentures goals.  Maybe the focus on marketing with the new intern will help us work out the best process.  The daily blogging is an experiment I intend to see through till June.  I've just got to make sure that we don't have too many things booked at the weekend and that I find a good way to calm myself before bed so I can get enough sleep!

The big question on my mind is would I be better off taking a nap in order to catch up on my sleep, as opposed to drinking a coffee and working through my Slacks/Emails? Taking a nap in the day (unless post-lunch) feels like slacking (being lazy or under-committed) if I'm not actually ill ... and I've already made the coffee ...

###Related Videos:

* ["Bob Martin" Scrum](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YPtN3dQd6Z4)
* ["Martin Fowler" Scrum](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aywVGFGImEY)
* ["Kent Beck" Scrum](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dyJnqLfP6u0)

p.s. this blog took 26 minutes
p.p.s managed to clear another small set of items off my desk
