So back in the saddle, still not as early to the blogface as I would like; distracted by Slack and Email as usual.  Trying to sort out my morning routine to put myself at the computer early.  The tension between getting things done to earn money, but not over-stretching oneself ...! Busy day yesterday, feel like a fair amount was done, but if I'm being true to this committment to focusing on improving the AV ecosystem I don't know that I can dwell on what happened yesterday.  What I do have is a bug report from the APSoc membership database that needs looking into and hopefully clearing out of the way before new projects kick in.

I could focus on that, but I'm struggling with two blogs I reviewed last night that correspond to me starting this sequence on AV website/ecosystem review and trying to upgrade the WebSiteOne README file.  I feel like I've been knocked away from the ecosystem review by using the blog to report on the mynotedesign sprint and the APSoc membership database development.  Both important parts of the ecosystem, but frustrating that I haven't followed through on other items that are supposed to make the AV ecosystem easier to navigate on a day to day basis.

So at least let me pull up that README changes, and work out what's left to do, but I can't find the branch ... ah, it wasn't on a branch it's in README-draft.md which I find because Federico has helpfully submitted a typo fix following up on the same blog that has spurred me into action.  There's actually not too many other things that need fixing up.  Or at least not too many that can't be headed with "under construction" banners.  Maybe I should be trying to make this perfect before release, but that feels like a recipe for putting it off indefinitely - let's get in a pull request and get input from some other team members:

[https://github.com/AgileVentures/WebsiteOne/pull/2199](https://github.com/AgileVentures/WebsiteOne/pull/2199)

Okay, so having taken one step on that I'll leave more review of the flow through the main site to another day.  We do have an experiement in place having changed the contents on the "code" page, to see if we can get more people clicking through to become members.  A couple more marketing meetings and maybe we can review that in detail ...
