So I've faltered in my blogging.  Partly planned, partly circumstances.  I was thinking of shifting to blogging one day and posting/prep the next, but I've been feeling too anxious about all the things that need to get done in order to do any posting/prep during the day.  As a result I've fallen back on doing the 15mins(?) or so each even to prep and post previous blogs.  The last couple of weeks I've blogged maybe one day in three or less.  I have mixed feelings about that.  I think blogging each morning settles my thoughts; I've been busy before, but when it's open source projects for charity clients I have compromised by working that into my blogging.  Now with a private close sourced coding contract (outside of AgileVentures) I don't feel I can justify blogging in terms of time spent, and the client is very particular about ensuring no code or even error messages end up anywhere online.

I'm also working on an hourly basis, with the client having paid for a block of hours, and I'm keeping a timesheet as I work on the project.  That has pros and cons.  The advantage is that coding just takes as long as it takes, but it also leaves me with a kind of generalized anxiety about whether I'm making fast enough progress; whether I'm getting in enough hours a week.  Juggling the varied AgileVentures admin tasks, mobs, scrums and pair programming sessions it seems like I'm not going to top more than 6 or 7 hours a week for the client.  That's fine in principle, although we had talked about doing 20 a week.  The client has said they felt bad they didn't actually have more work to get done, and actually asked me to pause last week, so every is okay so far.  It's just now that I get a sense of urgency about finishing some things before the end of May, I'm conflicted about whether I need to pull out the stops and do a weekend session, or block off some days away from AV next week?

Those things are all possible, and I always had in mind that I might need to start alternating weeks on AgileVentures as previous blogs have atested.  We have new functionality in the main AV site from super contributor Marian who's added functionality to support biweekly events, so I'm in the process of making all the project meetings biweekly which should free up some additional time.  I just wish the project was open source since then I could leverage my open blogging process for thinking about the code.  I also have this thought that that activity also synergizes with the open learning objectives of AV as a whole.  I blogged the details of the APSoc project, which I find helpful, although I don't know that anyone else necessarily derives benefits from my blogs.  I see other blogs intro-ing tech topics on medium getting 1000's of likes.  I guess that's for more connected people who are crafting articles (or just happening to put them together) that scratch an itch for many other developers.

In contrast my streams of consciousness blogs are probably boring and offputting to most.  But they help me, and maybe they help me be less verbose in meetings and Slack and email so maybe that helps others.  Still The nub of the issue for me is that even though the APSoc membership database ending up taking a lot longer than expected, I could feel completely comfortable spending the morning on it, blogging about it, and not feeling that I was neglecting AV.  The private project is a node electron one, and I think that's not spilling any beans.  It's also a prototype, and there are various questions about architectural style, levels of testing, development and business approach.  I'm in a set up here where I don't have direct access to the client, and I'm picking tickets off a backlog and implementing them to the best of my ability in a slightly tangled prototype system.  Lots of learn, but a lot of proces anxiety for me to manage as I juggle earning money for family trips and activities with doing the best I can for the AV charity.

The quintissential issue this morning was working out to start off.  Before I blogged this I sketched a little list on paper of the things I could start on this morning, even before I turned the computer on:

> * review Slack & Email
> * blog start

> High Priority
> - update bank payment amounts for new financial year
> - end of year financial update to HMRC for my company
> - NG monthly report
> - fixing sjoseph@hpu.edu email sending (to get ESaaS textbook complementary copies out)
> - setting up SPOCs
> - reviewing my action plan doc for other priority items

Not everything in the above list is super high priority, but the first two really should be sorted before Monday.  In the end turning on the computer I pretty much saw all my email (there wasn't too much) and went for the blog start in order to manage the anxiety.  I think I've got to an important point that if continuing with this private coding project I really need to set expectations about how many hours will be done in a given week rather than leaving it drifting.  E.g. set a five hour base and say that if we need to do a twenty hour week that we need to arrange it two weeks in advance or something.  I'll have another conversation about seeing if we can make the project open source, although I think that's super-unlikely.  The other thing I have to consider is whether I want to sell another block of hours, or should I instead block off my time for working on the NHS project, paying myself additional contracting fees, which reduces the pool money for potentially paying others ... well, one can only ponder for so long.  Let's get these financial updates out of the way and as much other admin as I can.  I've postponed the AsyncVoter meeting this evening so I can get a clear couple of hours done on the private project ...
