On the train into London for a design jam on Social Prescribing for Long Term Conditions at the Health Foundry.  I'm not entirely sure that I have the time to spare for this.  My previous contact at the HLP suggested that I might be interested to attend.  It's the kind of event that I might charge to run for folks.  I remember Harrow council talking about wanting to do a hackathon.  There's an aspect of getting free labour from the people who might attend - take a day out of your schedule to work on this problem for us.  At the same time this is all in a good cause and is being run by the NHS? Actually it appears to be run by Guys and St. Thomas's charity.  It appears to be a kind of digital health startup incubator of some kind.

I think it'll probably be a useful networking event.  I may be going completely crazy but I keep thinking about the luck potion from the sixth(?) Harry Potter book.  I never really liked Harry Potter that much, but then my kids got the complete set recently and I'm actually really impressed with the later books.  The luck potion is a great concept and executed really well in the story and feels to me like it connects to all the buddhist/mindfulness concepts of going with the flow, trusting your feelings and just letting things emerge.  In the story when Harry takes the luck potion he feels compelled to do a few different things that superficially don't seem to take him in the direction of his goals, but they all work out having surprise effects.

I went to a brainstorming event at the mayor's office last year and a person I met there just introduced me to a lead on a new paid project.  I sort of had a feeling about this event, and even though it's a short week with lots to do, I didn't have any other travel commitments this week, so thought I'd head on down and see what I would find.  I guess I might not see the benefit for a few years to come ...  
