I'm heading into central London on the train again, this time for a meeting arranged by Elemental software, who have been commissioned by the Mayor's office to do some kind of survey or review about Social Prescribing in London.  They are calling the event "Have your say on the Mayor of London’s social prescribing strategy", and I am going to VCSE stakeholder workshop number two, where VCSE stands for Voluntary, Community and Social Enterprise.  Apparently Elemental have been asked to look at:

>  The role of the VCSE sector and digital solutions to support social prescribing

Elemental provides a digital software solution for Social Prescribing, and so it seems a little odd that they should be the ones running a review on all these things, but I think everyone is keen to avoid being left out of the loop on this.  There was a workshop last week, and I know some people can't make either and so are being spoken to individually.  I've also been contacted by a person called Martin Bell to arrange a time to speak about the digital side of Social Prescribing.

I'm not really sure what to expect from today's meeting.  I suspect it might be a little like the meeting at the mayor's office I attended the other month.  A sort of networking and talking shop.  I'm a bit flustered because the timing of last Thursday's meeting with the NHS and this one today means that we haven't been able to have a LocalSupport team meeting for the last two weeks.  I have just got what looks like a reprieve on a private client project which takes the pressure off a little today, but I feel like I'm scrambling to make all the mobs and f2f meetings with AgileVentures Premium members, and I'm not making much progress on the bigger paying projects.

I'm trying to put together a contract to incentivize other AV mentors to get more involved and compensate them for their input, and I've got some positive feedback on that, although as I think about it more carefully I think the package of benefits that I'm putting in there leaves me out of temporal and financial pocket.  What I'm really hoping to do is to get a few more mentors running face to face sessions.  Each f2f session brings in £50 a month, so I was thinking of passing on £40 to the mentor, and imagining that I could gradually hand off the majority of the f2f sessions to other mentors.  I was then also thinking to offer the mentors f2f sessions themselves, but that would effectively leave me still at capacity in terms of f2f sessions without any additional income, unless each of the mentors runs at least 5 f2f sessions a month.  That would be great in some ways, e.g. say that we were paying six mentors and they each had five mentees, then we'd supporting thirty mentees - something I would struggle to do myself, but as hard experience has taught me, the reality is that mentors would support a mixed number of mentees, and getting mentees signed up for paying plans will be a stop start process.

Of course this could be a loss leader, but once you've set a rate for something it's then difficult to adjust it in your own favour.  Alternatives include:

* paying less cash
* offering fewer benefits

I guess I need to put together a spreadsheet showing how the budget evolves for different scenarios.

I'm also wrestling with how we move forward on the infrastructure side for the further development of the NHS wiki.  Nico wasn't available yesterday, but I set up Michael with access to the staging server, and we found a dockerfile for mediawiki, which makes it look like there might be a process to streamline deployment of new instances of mediawiki.  Still I've got to make sure that we address the https renewal (in the next 10 days) and upgrade the recaptcha to see if that can put a lid on the spambot signups.

I haven't got as far as being able to put paid bounties on the individual elements in the trello board that we've used in the past for the wiki development.  I guess another argument for a financial spreadsheet is to work out if we have enough funds to contract someone on a regular basis ...

Having completed the Elemental's event in London, I'm on my way back to Harrow on the train.  The event was just like a scaled down version of the event at the mayor's office.  I'm not sure if we managed to develop any really actionable suggestions for the mayor, but I think it was quite successful as a networking event.  On my table I was speaking with Dal from the voluntary sector who runs the social prescribing scheme in Hillingdon, which has been demonstrating significant cost savings for the last couple of years.  There was Wayne, the vice chair from Newham CCG who commissioned a social prescribing scheme focused on pre-diabetes care and high risk cardio cases.  There was Fiona who works across the Lewesham CCG and the local council.  Also Carlos, who runs a cooking program in tower hamlets; Mary from the Croydon volunteer association who are just starting out with their own social prescribing system, and Tom a "Transformation Project Manager" from Camden CCG.

I found out more about the whole Elemental setup from Phil Veasy, the Community Well person who had worked with Elemental on writing the bid that had been selected by the GLA, and was running the workshop today.  I asked about the conflict of interest behind an SP software company running this information gathering exercise, and he pointed out that he was a voluntary sector person and Elemental had effectively outsourced this to him.  Also that GLA had selected their bid from a variety of bids, and so presumably the GLA had considered proposals from voluntary sector groups; although it makes me wonder about a need for more transparency in these bidding processes.  However opacity is built in with private companies bidding on things - they don't want to reveal the details of their proposals.  Trade secrets and all that.  The received business seems to be that businesses wouldn't bid if they didn't have confidentiality in the proposal process.  I wonder if there's room to apply open source software principles to business?  Looks like there is:

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_business](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_business)



