I'm off into London again to meet up with the co-founder of elemental software.  They've got a social prescribing software platform that's in use in Northern Ireland, and they won the contract to deliver research on social prescribing to the London mayor's office.  We've had some phone conversations before about integration between the wiki and their system.  I believe the original contact was suggested by HLP - we had a joint phone meeting back in February when I was recovering from a rather nasty flu.  

It took a while to do a follow up call, and in the meantime Elemental had their series of meetings to get input from the voluntary sector to input into their report to the mayor's office.  I attended one of those workshops, and was also interviewed on the phone as part of their digital strategy report.  I would really like to see the results of all of their research, but it's unclear to me if they'll be sharing the report.

The main thing for me from this meeting would be to see the actual software they are using.  Apparently it's routing 10's of thousands of social prescribing referrals, and they've got it linked in to various other systems.  Particularly impressive is that they have EMIS integration, the communication system that doctors use.  

I got a demo of the software and it all looked pretty slick.  It's web forms - a whole web application, and the EMIS integration is apparently a button in the EMIS system that then opens the elemental system without the doctor needing to log in.  Although it turns out that EMIS is not so widely used in Northern Ireland, so there the G.P.s are logging into the site directly and filling out a form (that includes patient details) to send over a social prescribing referral to the link worker for a particular area.

The link workers, and even the patients, can also log in to the system, and the G.P. can see that the link worker has scheduled a meeting with the patient and what plan they've agreed.  Most impressively the link worker (or patient) can review the local areas activities and events that might be good for the patient's particular condition and circumstances.  It turns out that Elemental's initial offering was software to help local third sector voluntary groups with their reporting to funders.  This is the key that keeps the data up to date; the local voluntary groups are strongly incentivised to enter in any changes since they want their reports to funders to be accurate.

We talked about ways to scaffold the conversations between the link workers.  It was interesting that in the elemental software the connection out to the third party voluntary sector group was by email.  I was thinking that maybe there could be a prompt for link workers when they were struggling with a referral to be able to share their thoughts with a link workers network.

I then spent the afternoon in a meeting with the NHS proactive care group, where I was hearing that the NHS England group had decided to go with Kahootz rather than our wiki for their repository of data on social prescribing, which is a bit of a disappointment.  I suspect that a perceived lack of security was what prevented us being selected. I also heard that there are apparently over 900 full time link workers across the country, and local councils have spent between £30M and £40M on social prescribing schemes.

I'd love to get all those link workers in a mailing list, and I got permission from HLP to invite all the folks who attended the GLA event on Social Prescribing to the new mailing list.  I'm not sure where that will go, I'd kind of wanted to get buy in from the whole group today, but bit my tongue and left that to a future event.  I guess I might do personalized one by one invites to maximize the chance of having people understand what they're signing up for ...

I also got to sit down with an NHS public champion (who is now with the GLA) after the meeting, and finally get connected with his developer.  Seems like that ended up in my sam@agileventures.org spam.  He further outlined the original vision for the wiki that we eventually built and how his sense had been that the original target was a totally open london-wide wiki for everyone.

Is that something that the LocalSupport system could evolve into? It feels like there would be a super long way to go there, particularly without explicit funding for the development of that solution.  Maybe the thing to focus on is an explicit open data standard for sharing information about local events and activities ...?  What would that even look like? Would that be just an object model that could be exported into JSON and XML as desired?

