Ecosystem review? Is my life part of the AV ecosystem?  Well, anyway, yesterday I managed to spend some time reinforcing the shelves in my home office so that the rows of heavy books on the wall don't collapse on me.  I want to get the whole office sorted out, as I feel like it's current state is drag on my productivity.  I don't think I did such a good job on the new brackets added to the shelves.  I just screwed them into the wall with the appropriate plastic socket things.  It seemed like that was enough without trying to put screws into the place where the brackets meet the bottom of the shelves, but then when I was putting the books back on the second shelf I could see the brackets coming away from the wall.  Maybe that would have happened anyway - the books are pretty heavy.  I took the books off again and adding additional screws so that the brackets were attached to the underside of the shelves.  I think overall they are stronger now, and I learned a lesson for future shelf assembly, but I feel a bit dispirited.

I'm trying to focus on the fact that I did actually manage to get some home improvement done in a Sunday, when I also got some easy personal time since there was no under-9s soccer match.  I'm struggling though; it's highlighted how much more I'd like to do in the office.  I guess there's not that much stuff, but one out of three items seems to have complex emotional processing associated with it.  I also didn't get to the soccer related admin yesterday and I promised myself that I'd address some of that this morning.  Now I'm blogging to try and help me get to grips with it.  What are the things I want to achieve?

1. Make a payment to the club for my level 2 coaching course and a collection of jackets that were ordered
2. Reach out to the other dads and let them know the times of the level 1 coaching courses that they could attend

I wonder if I need to delegate the jacket handling to someone else?  And then I get waves of anxiety for thinking about all this when there are other "work" things I should be focusing on.  At another level I feel like there's an analogy about the way I work, tending to take too much on; not take enough breaks.  Recently I've been taking every 7th week off (more or less) corresponding to the breaks my children have in school.  There's one next week and I'll be doing some camping and visiting relatives with them.  I think this is a generally healthy move.  I think I also need to start instituting other days off to allow me to get stuff done away from AgileVentures.  Would it be crazy to be doing it as frequently as once a week?  I think I wouldn't use it for just lying about each week.  The things I'd like to get done on days off from AgileVentures include:

a) sorting out my office
b) other work on the house (new internet cabling, front yard, garden clearing)
c) private project work
d) shopping
e) resting

For a full day I'd need to work out something with the calendaring.  There's a kind of guilt feeling that I need to be working every spare hour.  You could say that all of the above should happen outside the standard 9-5, but my evenings and weekends are filled with my kids activities which also all cost money.  Difficult ... right now I've just got to pay down some anxiety about things not done.  I think it's £350 quid to pay to the soccer club for jackets and training, let's move some money around.

Took a while to find the bank account of the club, but now some money moved out of my savings to make payment - sorted some more jacket orders.  Can I delegate that?  Let's just message all the dads about upcoming training courses, and have a coffee and then move on to some "real" work.  Managing/supporting groups of volunteers, is there anything I can learn to help with AgileVentures?
