I've been feeling rather anxious the last few mornings.  It settles down once I've got a bit of work done.  I think it's partly anxiety about money, partly anxiety about what is the sensible thing to be working on.  It's been a week full of discussions about money.  Starting on Monday we had an agreement from the mynoteboat client that they are happy with the prototype and that they would like to proceed with full development.  They are talking about making the deposit payment in two installments.  This morning the client has just reviewed the pivotal tracker items.  They have not yet paid the remainder of the monies for the design sprint, or made the first of the staged payments for the main development.  I guess I have to engage with their comments on the pivotal tracker in order to get any movement on either of those.

Across the spread of the week I'm hearing from the NHS that there's some more money for wiki development and so I've worked up a series of proposals for them that should be submitted to them.  One of my private mentees has been trying to get me in on another bid for a social prescribing technology system.  I haven't actually been paid by that mentee yet since we're doing things on an invoice basis and when I suggested that the last of their three mentee slots be used by me to explain the details of the agile terminology that's used through to the tender I've suddenly not gotten any answer to texts or emails.  Furthermore I have another private client who's previously paid for some js coding work, who's negotiated a deal with me to buy a block of my hours in advance.  Monies for that were supposed to come through on Thursday but haven't, and I'm left caught between wondering whether most of my free time next week will be taken up with the start of that project or not.

Also this week I did manage to finally get paid for another piece of contract work, albeit six months late.  Nice to have that money come into the bank.  My immediate financial needs, i.e. food on the table for the family, are being met, but with all these different things up in the air I have no idea if we're going to be able to afford a family trip to take the kids to see their Japanese grandparents this summer.

Financial anxiety is really not good for anything.  I understand the appeal of an apparently regular reliable paycheck in a way that I never did before.  In some ways it's amazing and a huge success that I've managed to get AgileVentures to the point where it can support me feeding my family, but I'm bound up in knots about whether I'll be able to have my kids spend time with their only remaining grandparents.  I'm trying to use these blogs to help me focus on improving the AV ecosystem.  I had half a mind to spend this morning looking at other parts of the WebSiteOne documentation or the AV site text and flow, but I'm too anxious.  I think I have to review these mynoteboat pivotal tracker tickets and get the NHS proposal in.  The two areas were I can take action that I judge have the highest probability of bringing some money in ...

[https://www.pivotaltracker.com/n/projects/2148808](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/n/projects/2148808)

So I've reviewed all the client's comments and responded, as well as pinging the client on Slack to let them know that there's only one thing that would change the timeline/estimate.  Gosh what a dance.  I also want to Slack the client the invoice for the remainder of the design sprint payment that they said they didn't get the first time around.  What a dance.  The intricacies of providing service and support to a client without putting too much pressure for them to pay outstanding bills or down payments on future activities.  Maybe I'm too worried.  Maybe the mood music does not need to be just right.  Maybe one just needs to be a broken record about payment.  I'm really not sure.

I had another private client pay for a design sprint, but now we seem to be in an ongoing holding pattern for main development, negotiating over the precise details of payment structure.  I guess it's a delicate balance of trust.  Clients are concerned that the developers might not deliver, while developers are concerned that clients might not pay and the work specification might expand into extraordinarily large additional amounts of work ...?

What I did also manage to do this week was to get agreement from the MetPlus client about an invoicing structure for their hosting.  I could just have set up automated invoicing a month or two ago, but I was worried that that might have been too aggressive.  Not that it wouldn't have worked out, but I do feel like getting a verbal sign off on things before sending invoices is a good way to go, but perhaps I'm mistaken.  There's as much variation in people and circumstances that perhaps there are no coherent rules.  Why am I both so concerned about putting people's noses out of joint, and yet find that the things I say in the natural flow of conversation are such that I offend people without realising, quash people's enthusiasm and put them off participating because I'm being overly critical.  Ah, a lifetimes' work to get the communication balance right.

Okay, enough stream of consciousness.  I'm making coffee then I'm doing the MetPlus invoicing.
