I am absolutely shattered.  I didn't manage to blog yesterday due to being up late in family council with my wife and eldest son working out his GCSE (school exam) options.  Do I double up somehow to keep my commitment to a year of blogs focused on the AV ecosystem? Does anyone care apart from me?  I seem to be getting further and further away from the blogging I want to be doing, the blogging that focuses on incremental improvements to the AV ecosystem, and this latest closed-source private contract (that will pay for me to allow my kids to see their grandparents this summer) is eating up all my spare time, including my blogging time in the morning.  I could blog somewhat tangentially about the stuff I'm doing in the private contract without breaching the NDA. I don't think anyone would complain if I alluded to enjoying using vscode and it's debugger to work on electron nodejs code.  It's just that it's closed source and under NDA so I can't really blog about the details and it doesn't synergise with the rest of AV; although there are some very positive signs there from a few projects that are re-invigorating themselves such as Y, RFM and Metplus.

After staying up late yesterday with my eldest to sort out his exam options, my wife and I were woken up in the night by my youngest son, and we've been below par all day.  I'm absolutely shattered now and the concept of blogging anything other than pure stream of consciousness at this point is completely out of the question.  Maybe on another night I'll be able to look through the copy of some of the other pages in the AV site and have something coherent to say about them, or be able to re-write them.  Our marketing intern said she thought she couldn't commit any more time to us today due to changing personal circumstances.  Shame as she was really nice, and I think the changes she made to the "code" page on the site are having a positive impact.  Oh well, we'll keep chipping away at the edifice.

I'll feel a lot more positive if the deposit for the major build of the mynoteboat project comes through by Friday as promised.  I think it might be by Monday if we're lucky, and probably we'll face several weeks of faffing, but who knows.  Maybe in the meantime I can convince my private client about the benefits of open sourcing the system I'm working on for them, but I'm not optimistic.  I did enjoy doing some mockups for the NHS project in keynote this afternoon.  That'll be another mood settler if we can land the next round the NHS project funds.  I just feel I'm not paying enough attention to the individual Premium members at the moment.  I kind of need to isolate a chunk of time each week to dedicate to that, or it's going to keep being pushed to the back of the queue.  Go with the flow, make adjustments, flow on ...
