Hmm, brain a flurry, feel like I'm being spun around.  Looking back at the list of items to focus on from yesterday I see I've made some progress on a few of them:

* sorting AV sponsor relations --> checked with Federico that everything's allocated
* getting new websiteone README out -->  deployed 
* getting back to review of flow through AV site --> New code page looks like it's doing well, but should run for 2 more weeks
* new proposal for the NHS --> rough draft completed
* querying tender for Women and Girls network --> emailed

I do want to do more review of flow in the AV site and sorting out of the WebsiteOne documentation, but the highest priority really should be this new proposal for the NHS.   I should take my notes from yesterday and turn them into a smarter document.  Do I dare blog drive this?  Whenever we get into discussions of money and budgets it feels a little exposed.  It's almost a kind of taboo.  If we expose our formulas for working out how much things should cost we open ourselves to criticism of the calculation method.  There's the fear that we'll be told that we shouldn't charge that much for a particular thing.  That someone will come in and cherry-pick based on the details we've exposed.  

At the same time how is anyone supposed to learn about these things without transparency?  But then again does transparency actively harm the negotiation process?  Right now I'm desparately struggling with the desire to look at my email to see if clarifications have come through on the Women and Girls network tender, and other things related to today's schedule ...

I've always been inspired by the Pivotal model whereby one is paying for a time put into a project rather than specific outcomes.  We tried that with some early money for the Harrow Community Network (LocalSupport) project and we ended up paying a lot to one junior person who got stuck for a long time on a particular feature.  The Pivotal model seems to rely on having a set of staff who are all at some minimum level of capability.  In the NHS wiki project we had a fixed budget and outcomes that weren't particularly negotiable.  For the Anthony Powell Society project the budget was negotiable (within limits) but again the outcome was specific.  Few of the organisations that we've worked with seem like they are in a position to set open ended consulting budgets that might not lead to particular outcomes, although that's sort of what ends up happening when projects fail.  I guess there will always be unscrupulous people ready to offer outcomes for money and then fail or run off, that makes it difficult for the rest of us to explain the open-ended nature of technology development.

So I couldn't resist.  Checked my email, no updates and not much email (phew) so checked Slack, and sorted out a few things there.  Enough of a catch up to calm me down and see there's not too much on fire.  Although I'm reminded that I'm trying to sort out a way to hand off managing volunteer applications to one of our interns.  It would be great to get that all written up, and that's much less controversial that estimates and budgeting.  Urgh, got distracted into doing that - at least now I have updated all our do-it applicant data and sent the templates for responding to new applicants to our intern.  Would be lovely if I could turn over that work to the intern and ensure that all applicants got a swift response.

I've also steeled myself and created the pages document with the new estimates for the NHS.  I'm going to knuckle down and try and complete that before my first pairing session today.
